*: add TiDB workload repository (#20490)
pingcap/docs: workloadrepo.md

---
title: TiDB Workload Repository

> summary: The workload repository is a system for collecting and storing historical workload data from a TiDB cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
summary: Learn the workload repository that is a system for collecting and storing historical workload data from a TiDB cluster.
```

Author: This now starts with "Introduces the workload repository system."

---

# TiDB Workload Repository

The workload repository is a system for collecting and storing historical workload data from a TiDB cluster. It periodically samples various system tables to track cluster performance and usage patterns over time.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Possible Scenarios for Workload Repository:

* **Troubleshooting** Database issues may occur at specific moments or during past periods. Effective diagnosis requires reviewing historical activities or events to identify the root cause.

* **Automation** Database automation relies on historical workload data. By deeply analyzing richer historical data, TiDB can provide more accurate advice for maintenance and performance tuning, such as index advisor and SQL binding advisor.

```

Author: Unless I am mistaken, neither of this use-cases is complete.  After we have completed features that require the Workload Repository, we should add links to them here.

Reviewer 2: OK

## Enabling the Workload Repository

> To enable the Workload Repository, set the following system variable:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable the Workload Repository, set the [`tidb_workload_repository_dest`](/system-variables.md/tidb_workload_repository_dest-new-in-v9.0.0) system variable:
```

> To enable the Workload Repository, set the [`tidb_workload_repository_dest`](/system-variables.md/tidb_workload_repository_dest-new-in-v9.0.0) system variable:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable the Workload Repository, set the [`tidb_workload_repository_dest`](/system-variables.md#tidb_workload_repository_dest-new-in-v9.0.0) system variable:
```

```sql
SET GLOBAL tidb_workload_repository_dest = 'table';
```

To disable it:

```sql
SET GLOBAL tidb_workload_repository_dest = '';
```

> ## Data Collection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Data collection
```

The Workload Repository stores data in tables under the `WORKLOAD_SCHEMA` database. It collects data via two different methods:

* The Snapshot process, which runs at configurable intervals, typically hourly, and can be triggered manually.
* The Time-based process, which runs at shorter intervals, typically every 5 seconds.

> ## Snapshot Sampling Process (Hourly by default)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Snapshot sampling process (hourly by default)
```

> The snapshot sampling process, which runs every 15 minutes to 2 hours, samples data from various monitoring tables. Snapshots are initiated from one of the TiDB nodes at the specified intervals, and process is as follows:

Author: I have updated the text to be more clear about the tables sampled.

> The snapshot sampling process, which runs every 15 minutes to 2 hours, samples data from various monitoring tables. Snapshots are initiated from one of the TiDB nodes at the specified intervals, and process is as follows:

Reviewer 2: LGTM

>  1. From the initiating node a row is inserted into HIST_SNAPSHOTS, capturing the snapshot’s ID, start and end timestamps, and server version details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 1. From the initiating node a row is inserted into `HIST_SNAPSHOTS`, capturing the snapshot ID, start and end timestamps, and server version details.
```

>  2. On each TiDB node, all rows from the source tables are copied to the corresponding history tables with the 'HIST_' prefix. The copied data includes the original columns from the source tables plus additional columns for the timestamp, instance ID, and snapshot ID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 2. On each TiDB node, all rows from the source tables are copied to the corresponding history tables with the `HIST_` prefix. The copied data includes the original columns from the source tables plus additional columns for the timestamp, instance ID, and snapshot ID.
```

Note that the sampled tables return data specific to the TiDB node from which they are queried.

Data is sampled from the following tables:

| Table Name | Destination Table | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |

> | TIDB_INDEX_USAGE | HIST_TIDB_INDEX_USAGE | Index usage statistics |
> | TIDB_STATEMENTS_STATS | HIST_TIDB_STATEMENTS_STATS | Statement statistics |
> | CLIENT_ERRORS_SUMMARY_BY_HOST | HIST_CLIENT_ERRORS_SUMMARY_BY_HOST | Client error summaries by host |
> | CLIENT_ERRORS_SUMMARY_BY_USER | HIST_CLIENT_ERRORS_SUMMARY_BY_USER | Client error summaries by user |
> | CLIENT_ERRORS_SUMMARY_GLOBAL | HIST_CLIENT_ERRORS_SUMMARY_GLOBAL | Client error summaries by global |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `TIDB_INDEX_USAGE` | `HIST_TIDB_INDEX_USAGE` | Index usage statistics |
| `TIDB_STATEMENTS_STATS` | `HIST_TIDB_STATEMENTS_STATS` | Statement statistics |
| `CLIENT_ERRORS_SUMMARY_BY_HOST` | `HIST_CLIENT_ERRORS_SUMMARY_BY_HOST` | Client error summaries by host |
| `CLIENT_ERRORS_SUMMARY_BY_USER` | `HIST_CLIENT_ERRORS_SUMMARY_BY_USER` | Client error summaries by user |
| `CLIENT_ERRORS_SUMMARY_GLOBAL` | `HIST_CLIENT_ERRORS_SUMMARY_GLOBAL` | Client error summaries by global |
```

> The snapshot sampling interval may be controlled with [`tidb_workload_repository_snapshot_interval`](/system-variables.md#tidb_workload_repository_snapshot_interval):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The snapshot sampling interval might be controlled with [`tidb_workload_repository_snapshot_interval`](/system-variables.md#tidb_workload_repository_snapshot_interval-new-in-v9.0.0):
```

```sql

> SET GLOBAL tidb_workload_repository_snapshot_interval = 900; -- set interval to 15 minutes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SET GLOBAL tidb_workload_repository_snapshot_interval = 900; -- set the interval to 15 minutes
```

```

> ## Taking Manual Snapshots

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Take manual snapshots
```

> Note that while the snapshot sampling process runs automatically based on the configured interval, you can also trigger a manual snapshot using:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that while the snapshot sampling process runs automatically based on the configured interval, you can also trigger a manual snapshot using the following SQL statement:
```

```sql
ADMIN WORKLOAD REPOSITORY TAKE SNAPSHOT;
```

> ## Time-based Sampling Process (Every 5 seconds by default)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Time-based sampling process (every 5 seconds by default)
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Manual snapshot doesn't change the next occurrence of auto snapshots. 

```

> The time-based sampling process, which runs every 1 to 600 seconds, samples data from various monitoring tables.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The time-based sampling process, which runs every 1 to 600 seconds, samples data from tables that save the instant status of the cluster.
```

Author: I have updated the text to be more clear about the type of the tables sampled.

> When the time-base sampling process runs all rows from the source tables are copied to the corresponding history tables with the 'HIST_' prefix. The copied data includes the original columns from the source tables plus additional columns for the timestamp and instance ID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the time-base sampling process runs, all rows from the source tables are copied to the corresponding history tables with the 'HIST_' prefix. The copied data includes the original columns from the source tables plus additional columns for the timestamp and instance ID.
```

> Unlike the Snapshot Sampling process, a row will not be added to the `HIST_SNAPSHOTS` table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unlike the snapshot sampling process, a row will not be added to the `HIST_SNAPSHOTS` table.
```

> When the time-base sampling process runs, all rows from the source tables are copied to the corresponding history tables with the 'HIST_' prefix. The copied data includes the original columns from the source tables plus additional columns for the timestamp and instance ID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the time-base sampling process runs, all rows from the source tables are copied to the corresponding history tables with the `HIST_` prefix. The copied data includes the original columns from the source tables plus additional columns for the timestamp and instance ID.
```

Note that the sampled tables return data specific to the TiDB node from which they are queried.

Data is sampled from the following tables:

| Table Name | Destination Table | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |

> | PROCESSLIST | HIST_PROCESSLIST | Active sessions
> | DATA_LOCK_WAITS | HIST_DATA_LOCK_WAITS | Data lock waits |
> | TIDB_TRX | HIST_TIDB_TRX | Active transactions |
> | MEMORY_USAGE | HIST_MEMORY_USAGE | Memory usage |
> | DEADLOCKS | HIST_DEADLOCKS | Deadlock information |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `PROCESSLIST` | `HIST_PROCESSLIST` | Active sessions |
| `DATA_LOCK_WAITS` | `HIST_DATA_LOCK_WAITS` | Data lock waits |
| `TIDB_TRX` | `HIST_TIDB_TRX` | Active transactions |
| `MEMORY_USAGE` | `HIST_MEMORY_USAGE` | Memory usage |
| `DEADLOCKS` | `HIST_DEADLOCKS` | Deadlock information |
```

> The time-based sampling interval may be controlled with [tidb_workload_repository_active_sampling_interval](/system-variables.md#tidb_workload_repository_active_sampling_interval):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The time-based sampling interval might be controlled with [`tidb_workload_repository_active_sampling_interval`](/system-variables.md#tidb_workload_repository_active_sampling_interval-new-in-v9.0.0):
```

```sql

> SET GLOBAL tidb_workload_repository_active_sampling_interval = 20; -- set interval to 20 seconds

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SET GLOBAL tidb_workload_repository_active_sampling_interval = 20; -- set the interval to 20 seconds
```

```

> ## Data Retention

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Data retention
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Setting the value to `0` disables the Time-based Sampling Process

```

The system automatically purges data based on the retention period setting, using partitions for efficient data management.

> The [tidb_workload_repository_retention_days](/system-variables.md#tidb_workload_repository_retention_days) variable controls the retention period for historical data in the Workload Repository. For example, to keep data for 30 days:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`tidb_workload_repository_retention_days`](/system-variables.md#tidb_workload_repository_retention_days-new-in-v9.0.0) variable controls the retention period for historical data in the Workload Repository. For example, to keep data for 30 days, run the following:
```

```sql
SET GLOBAL tidb_workload_repository_retention_days = 30;
```

> A higher value for this variable allows for longer data retention, which may be beneficial for workload analysis, but will increase storage requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A higher value for this variable allows for longer data retention, which might be beneficial for workload analysis, but will increase storage requirements.
```

Reviewer: We follow this rule: https://developers.google.cn/style/word-list#may

---
title: TiDB Workload Repository
summary: Introduces the workload repository system for collecting and storing historical workload data from a TiDB cluster.
---

# TiDB Workload Repository

The workload repository is a system for collecting and storing historical workload data from a TiDB cluster. It periodically samples various system tables to track cluster performance and usage patterns over time.

> ## Enabling the Workload Repository

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Enable the Workload Repository
```

Reviewer 3: For a task-based heading, start with a [bare infinitive](https://wikipedia.org/wiki/Infinitive#English), also known as a plain form or [base form](https://wikipedia.org/wiki/English_verbs#Base_form) verb.
ref: https://developers.google.cn/style/headings

To enable the Workload Repository, set the [`tidb_workload_repository_dest`](/system-variables.md#tidb_workload_repository_dest-new-in-v900) system variable:

```sql
SET GLOBAL tidb_workload_repository_dest = 'table';
```

To disable it:

```sql
SET GLOBAL tidb_workload_repository_dest = '';
```

## Data collection

The Workload Repository stores data in tables under the `WORKLOAD_SCHEMA` database. It collects data via two different methods:

> * The Snapshot process, which runs at configurable intervals, typically hourly, and can be triggered manually.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* The Snapshot process, which runs at configurable intervals, hourly by default, and can be triggered manually.
```

> * The Time-based process, which runs at shorter intervals, typically every 5 seconds.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* The time-based sampling process, which runs at shorter intervals, typically every 5 seconds.
```

## Snapshot sampling process (hourly by default)

> The snapshot sampling process, which runs every 15 minutes to 2 hours, samples data from various cumulative metrics tables. Snapshots are initiated from one of the TiDB nodes at the specified intervals, and process is as follows:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The snapshot sampling process, which runs every 15 minutes to 2 hours, samples data from various cumulative metrics tables. Snapshots are initiated from one of the TiDB nodes at the specified intervals, and the process is as follows:
```

>  1. From the initiating node a row is inserted into `HIST_SNAPSHOTS`, capturing the snapshot ID, start and end timestamps, and server version details.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 1. From the initiating node, a row is inserted into `WORKLOAD_SCHEMA.HIST_SNAPSHOTS`, capturing the snapshot ID, start and end timestamps, and server version details.
```

 2. On each TiDB node, all rows from the source tables are copied to the corresponding history tables with the `HIST_` prefix. The copied data includes the original columns from the source tables plus additional columns for the timestamp, instance ID, and snapshot ID.

Note that the sampled tables return data specific to the TiDB node from which they are queried.

Data is sampled from the following tables:

> | Table Name | Destination Table | Description |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Source table | Destination table | Description |
```

| --- | --- | --- |

> | `TIDB_INDEX_USAGE` | `HIST_TIDB_INDEX_USAGE` | Index usage statistics |
> | `TIDB_STATEMENTS_STATS` | `HIST_TIDB_STATEMENTS_STATS` | Statement statistics |
> | `CLIENT_ERRORS_SUMMARY_BY_HOST` | `HIST_CLIENT_ERRORS_SUMMARY_BY_HOST` | Client error summaries by host |
> | `CLIENT_ERRORS_SUMMARY_BY_USER` | `HIST_CLIENT_ERRORS_SUMMARY_BY_USER` | Client error summaries by user |
> | `CLIENT_ERRORS_SUMMARY_GLOBAL` | `HIST_CLIENT_ERRORS_SUMMARY_GLOBAL` | Client error summaries by global |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| [`TIDB_INDEX_USAGE`](/information-schema/information-schema-tidb-index-usage.md) | `HIST_TIDB_INDEX_USAGE` | Index usage statistics |
| [`TIDB_STATEMENTS_STATS`](/statement-summary-tables.md) | `HIST_TIDB_STATEMENTS_STATS` | Statement statistics |
| [`CLIENT_ERRORS_SUMMARY_BY_HOST`](/information-schema/client-errors-summary-by-host.md) | `HIST_CLIENT_ERRORS_SUMMARY_BY_HOST` | Client error summaries by host |
| [`CLIENT_ERRORS_SUMMARY_BY_USER`](/information-schema/client-errors-summary-by-user.md) | `HIST_CLIENT_ERRORS_SUMMARY_BY_USER` | Client error summaries by user |
| [`CLIENT_ERRORS_SUMMARY_GLOBAL`](/information-schema/client-errors-summary-global.md) | `HIST_CLIENT_ERRORS_SUMMARY_GLOBAL` | Client error summaries by global |
```

The snapshot sampling interval can be controlled with [`tidb_workload_repository_snapshot_interval`](/system-variables.md#tidb_workload_repository_snapshot_interval-new-in-v900):

```sql
SET GLOBAL tidb_workload_repository_snapshot_interval = 900; -- set the interval to 15 minutes
```

## Manual snapshots

Note that while the snapshot sampling process runs automatically based on the configured interval, you can also trigger a manual snapshot using the following SQL statement:

> 

Reviewer 3: Are there any permission requirements to run this statement?

```sql
ADMIN WORKLOAD REPOSITORY TAKE SNAPSHOT;
```

> 

Reviewer 3: Do we need to add a document for this statement? 
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f7a445ae-d9ff-407c-aee0-e2e168f2890e)

Author: I added a section to this page for the new command.

> ADMIN CREATE WORKLOAD SNAPSHOT

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ADMIN CREATE WORKLOAD SNAPSHOT;
```

Manually triggering snapshots does not change the interval or timing of automatic snapshots.

## Time-based sampling process (every 5 seconds by default)

The time-based sampling process samples data from various non-cumulative metrics tables at intervals ranging from 1 to 600 seconds.

> When the time-base sampling process runs, all rows from the source tables are copied to the corresponding history tables with the `HIST_` prefix. The copied data includes the original columns from the source tables plus additional columns for the timestamp and instance ID.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When the time-base sampling process runs, all rows from the source tables are copied to the corresponding target tables with the `HIST_` prefix. The copied data includes the original columns from the source tables plus additional columns for the timestamp and instance ID.
```

Unlike the snapshot sampling process, a row will not be added to the `HIST_SNAPSHOTS` table.

Note that the sampled tables return data specific to the TiDB node from which they are queried.

Data is sampled from the following tables:

> | Table Name | Destination Table | Description |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Source table | Destination table | Description |
```

| --- | --- | --- |

> | `PROCESSLIST` | `HIST_PROCESSLIST` | Active sessions |
> | `DATA_LOCK_WAITS` | `HIST_DATA_LOCK_WAITS` | Data lock waits |
> | `TIDB_TRX` | `HIST_TIDB_TRX` | Active transactions |
> | `MEMORY_USAGE` | `HIST_MEMORY_USAGE` | Memory usage |
> | `DEADLOCKS` | `HIST_DEADLOCKS` | Deadlock information |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| [`PROCESSLIST`](/information-schema/information-schema-processlist.md) | `HIST_PROCESSLIST` | Active sessions |
| [`DATA_LOCK_WAITS`](/information-schema/information-schema-data-lock-waits.md) | `HIST_DATA_LOCK_WAITS` | Data lock waits |
| [`TIDB_TRX`](/information-schema/information-schema-tidb-trx.md) | `HIST_TIDB_TRX` | Active transactions |
| [`MEMORY_USAGE`](/information-schema/information-schema-memory-usage.md) | `HIST_MEMORY_USAGE` | Memory usage |
| [`DEADLOCKS`](/information-schema/information-schema-deadlocks.md) | `HIST_DEADLOCKS` | Deadlock information |
```

The time-based sampling interval can be controlled with [`tidb_workload_repository_active_sampling_interval`](/system-variables.md#tidb_workload_repository_active_sampling_interval-new-in-v900):

```sql
SET GLOBAL tidb_workload_repository_active_sampling_interval = 20; -- set the interval to 20 seconds
```

Setting this global variable to `0` disables the time-based sampling process.

## Data retention

> The system automatically purges data based on the retention period setting, using partitions for efficient data management.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Historical data in the Workload Repository is retained for seven days by default. The system automatically purges data based on the retention period setting, using partitions for efficient data management.
```

> The [`tidb_workload_repository_retention_days`](/system-variables.md#tidb_workload_repository_retention_days-new-in-v900) variable controls the retention period for historical data in the Workload Repository. For example, to keep data for 30 days, run the following:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can use the [`tidb_workload_repository_retention_days`](/system-variables.md#tidb_workload_repository_retention_days-new-in-v900) variable to control the retention period for historical data in the Workload Repository. For example, to keep data for 30 days, run the following:
```

```sql
SET GLOBAL tidb_workload_repository_retention_days = 30;
```

A higher value for this variable allows for longer data retention, which might be beneficial for workload analysis, but will increase storage requirements.

## Notes

- Enabling the Workload Repository might have a small performance impact on the system.

> - Setting sampling intervals too low might increase system overhead.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Setting sampling intervals too short might increase system overhead.
```
